# Styling in LectureDoc2 (LD)

## The Cascade

In LectureDoc2 (LD) the main css file is `ld.css`, this file defines the primary 
layers and imports the respective css files. Understanding LD's cascade is
necessary for extending or customizing LD.

The layers have the following priorities (starting with the lowest priority):

1. **normalize**

   The goal of this layer is to achieve (some) normalization across the 
   supported browsers (Firefox, Chrome and Safari) w.r.t. the generally 
   used HTML elements. The particular focus is on those elements that are 
   used/generated by rstToLectureDoc2.
   
   *The styles in this file are generally element and attribute based.* 
   *They don't use specific classes or ids or non-trivial css selectors.*

2. **common**

   Contains definitions that are commonly useful to achieve a consistent look
   across the different supported views, browsers and operating systems.  

   *The styles in this file are generally element based.* 
   *They only use basic classes, but no ids or non-trivial css selectors.*

2. **theme**

   The CSS rules in this layer are concerned with the look of your slides and 
   the document.

   1. **ld**
     
      Definitions related to theming slides and components on slides. 
      Definitions in this layer can be freely redefined by a custom theme.

      In general, the LD theme provides a reasonable default for all elements 
      generated by rstToLectureDoc2.
   2. ***&lt;custom&gt;***
       
      You should put all your customizations in the layer: 
      
        theme.*&lt;theme-name&gt;.<...>*

    *The CSS rules are generally class and id-based.*

3. **utilities**

   Definitions that enable a fine-grained control of the layout and optics of
   elements. In general, it is best to avoid using them as they generally 
   hinder easily changing a theme.

   **All definitions in this layer must be id or class based.** This avoids 
   interference with LectureDoc's UI. Don't use the prefix `ld-` for your ids 
   and classes as this prefix is used by LectureDoc itself.

4. **ui**

   CSS related to LectureDoc's UI.

   1. **element.common**

      Primarily defines the shared properties; i. e., the size and positioning of 
      elements such as dialogs.
   2. **element**
      Defines the specific layout of the components of LectureDoc's UI.

   The CSS rules are generally class and id-based.

5. **behavior**

   This defines the foundational css-properties of those css classes that are 
   predefined by LectureDoc2 (modules) and which are related to core 
   functionality. For example, decks and stories. This does not define the 
   L&F - it only defines properties relevant to the core behavior of LectureDoc.


## Customization
LectureDoc associates everything that is typically used on slides with a 
reasonable default, but it is easily possible to adapt those definitions.

To create your own theme you just have to specify the main css file of your 
theme and define all styling in the layer theme.*&lt;theme-name&gt;.<...>*. 

In general, a theme should not change properties starting with `ld-`. 



